Grant Management Webapp RFP (#1575)
w3f/Grants-Program: docs/RFPs/Open/grant_management_webapp.md

* [Grants](https://github.com/w3f/Grants-Program)
* [Deliveries](https://github.com/w3f/Grant-Milestone-Delivery)

All the grant applications, approvals, deliveries and evaluations are pushed into github as PRs and documents, 
so that all processes are public and transparent.

You can find all the details about how applications and deliveries are submitted in the [Grants Program Website](https://w3f.github.io/Grants-Program/),
or also by browsing the 2 repositories above.

## Project Description :page_facing_up: 

The objective of this RFP is a web application that publishes all the information contained in 
the grants repositories in a way that facilitates navigation for the grant team itself primarily, but also
to any other interested party.

By providing an API, it will also allow to pull the data in a structured way and make it easy to calculate statistics or track different metrics.

Finally, we hope to set Web3 Foundation Grant Program as an example of how other grant programs can leverage a simple yet powerful process to manage their grants.
Therefore, the web application and the structure of our repositories can be re-used by other grant programs.

## Existing prototype

> A quick an dirty prototype already exists for the application:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A quick and dirty prototype already exists for the application:
```

- [Backend](https://github.com/w3f/w3f_grants_backend)
- [Frontend](https://github.com/w3f/w3f_grants_frontend)

These are just a first experiment to test how the app could work, and are completely undocumented, 
but please feel free to contact [randombishop](nabil@web3.foundation) if you need help trying them out or simply discuss.

Also, these are just an option, and the RFP doesn't require building from these. Proposers are free to propose the framework and approach of their choice.

## Deliverables :nut_and_bolt:

### Grants Page

- Lists grants and their status.
- Search
- Filter

> For example:
> ![screenshot_grants_page](./img/grants_page.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example:

![screenshot_grants_page](./img/grants_page.png)
```

### Grants details

- Shows the grant information
- Overview of the grant project
- Milestones details and status
- All documents related to the grant and links to their pull requests (application, deliveries and evaluations)

> For example:
> ![screenshot_grants_details](./img/grants_details.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example:

![screenshot_grants_details](./img/grants_details.png)
```

### Teams

- Provide a view at the team level.
- Contact information.
- Grants and applications, and their current status.

### Applications

- Current grant applications.
- Links to the PR on github, link to the team page to check their history.
- Status of the application, date opened, number of approvals so far and how many remaining.

### Deliveries

> - Shows current deliveries pending evaluation.
> - Links to all relevant information and history.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Shows current deliveries pending evaluation.
- Links to all relevant information and history.
- Status of the delivery, submission date, evaluator, and if it's on stale.
```

# Grant Management Web Application

* **Status:** Open
* **Proposer:** [randombishop](https://github.com/randombishop)

## Context

Web3 Foundation manages grant applications and deliveries in 2 github repositories:
* [Grants](https://github.com/w3f/Grants-Program)
* [Deliveries](https://github.com/w3f/Grant-Milestone-Delivery)

All the grant applications, approvals, deliveries and evaluations are pushed into github as PRs and documents, 
so that all processes are public and transparent.

You can find all the details about how applications and deliveries are submitted in the [Grants Program Website](https://w3f.github.io/Grants-Program/),
or also by browsing the 2 repositories above.

## Project Description :page_facing_up: 

The objective of this RFP is a web application that publishes all the information contained in 
the grants repositories in a way that facilitates navigation for the grant team itself primarily, but also
to any other interested party.

By providing an API, it will also allow to pull the data in a structured way and make it easy to calculate statistics or track different metrics.

> Finally, we hope to set Web3 Foundation Grant Program as an example of how other grant programs can leverage a simple yet powerful process to manage their grants.
> Therefore, the web application and the structure of our repositories can be re-used by other grant programs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Web3 Foundation Grants Program is unique in that everything is openly and transparently published on GitHub. As a result of this RFP, we hope the W3F Grants Program can set an example of how other grant programs can leverage a simple yet powerful process to manage their grants.
Therefore, the web application and the structure of our repositories can be re-used by other grant programs.
```

## Existing prototype

A quick and dirty prototype already exists for the application:
- [Backend](https://github.com/w3f/w3f_grants_backend)
- [Frontend](https://github.com/w3f/w3f_grants_frontend)

> These are just a first experiment to test how the app could work, and are completely undocumented, 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These examples are just an initial experiment to test how the app could work, and are completely undocumented, 
```

> but please feel free to contact [randombishop](nabil@web3.foundation) if you need help trying them out or simply discuss.

Reviewer 2: Should we maybe add grants@web3.foundation here instead of just your personal?
